ADULT ADHD SELF-REPORT SCALE (ASRS-V1.1) SYMPTOM CHECKLIST
Please answer the questions below, rating yourself on each of the criteria shown using the scale on the right side of the page. As you answer each question, place an X in the box that best describes how you have felt and conducted yourself over the past 6 months. Please give this completed checklist to your healthcare professional to discuss during your appointment.
Never Rarely Sometimes Often Very often
PART A
How often do you have trouble wrapping up the final details of a project, once the challenging parts have been done?
How often do you have difficulty getting things in order when you have to do a task that requires organization?
How often do you have problems remembering appointments or obligations?
When you have a task that requires a lot of thought, how often do you avoid or delay getting started?
How often do you fidget or squirm with your hands or feet when you have to sit down for a long time?
How often do you feel overly active and compelled to do things, like you were driven by a motor?
PART B
How often do you make careless mistakes when you have to work on a boring or difficult project?
How often do you have difficulty keeping your attention when you are doing boring or repetitive work?
How often do you have difficulty concentrating on what people say to you, even when they are speaking to you directly?
How often do you misplace or have difficulty finding things at home or at work?
How often are you distracted by activity or noise around you?
How often do you leave your seat in meetings or in other situations in which you are expected to stay seated?
How often do you feel restless or fidgety?
How often do you have difficulty unwinding and relaxing when you have time to yourself?
How often do you find yourself talking too much when you are in social situations?
When you’re in a conversation, how often do you find yourself finishing the sentences of the people you are talking to, before they can finish it themselves?
How often do you have difficulty waiting your turn in situations when turn taking is required?
How often do you interrupt others when they are busy?

© World Health Organization 2003 All rights reserved. Based on the Composite International Diagnostic Interview © 2001 World Health Organization. All rights reserved. Used with permission. Requests for permission to reproduce or translate —whether for sale or for noncommercial distribution—should be addressed to Professor Ronald Kessler, PhD, Department of Health Care Policy, Harvard Medical School, (fax: +011 617-432-3588; email: ronkadm@hcp.med.harvard.edu).