Mood Disorder Questionnaire (MDQ)
Name: Date:

Instructions: Check ( 3) the answer that best applies to you.
Please answer each question as best you can.
1. Has there ever been a period of time when you were not your usual self and…
…you felt so good or so hyper that other people thought you were not your normal self or you were so hyper that you got into trouble?
…you were so irritable that you shouted at people or started fights or arguments?
…you felt much more self-confident than usual?
…you got much less sleep than usual and found you didn’t really miss it?
…you were much more talkative or spoke faster than usual?
…thoughts raced through your head or you couldn’t slow your mind down?
…you were so easily distracted by things around you that you had trouble concentrating or staying on track?
…you had much more energy than usual?
…you were much more active or did many more things than usual?
…you were much more social or outgoing than usual, for example, you telephoned friends in the middle of the night?
…you were much more interested in sex than usual?
…you did things that were unusual for you or that other people might have thought were excessive, foolish, or risky?
…spending money got you or your family in trouble?

2. If you checked YES to more than one of the above, have several of these ever happened during the same period of time?
Please check 1 response only.
3. How much of a problem did any of these cause you — like being able to work; having family, money, or legal troubles; getting into arguments or fights?
Please check 1 response only. No problem Yes No Minor problem Moderate problem Serious problem
4. Have any of your blood relatives (ie, children, siblings, parents, grandparents, aunts, uncles) had manic-depressive illness or bipolar disorder?
5. Has a health professional ever told you that you have manic-depressive illness or bipolar disorder?

This questionnaire should be used as a starting point.  It is not a substitute for a full medical evaluation. Bipolar disorder is a complex illness, and an accurate, thorough diagnosis can only be made through a personal evaluation by your doctor.
Adapted from Hirschfeld R, Williams J, Spitzer RL, et al. Development and validation of a screening instrument for bipolar spectrum disorder: the Mood Disorder Questionnaire.  Am J Psychiatry. 2000;157:1873-1875.
This instrument is designed for screening purposes only and is not to be used as a diagnostic tool.
How to Use The questionnaire takes less than 5 minutes to complete. Patients simply check the yes or no boxes in response to the questions.
The last question pertains to the patient’s level of functional impairment.
The physician, nurse, or medical staff assistant then scores the completed questionnaire.
How to Score Further medical assessment for bipolar disorder is clearly warranted if patient:
• Answers Yes to 7 or more of the events in question #1 AND
• Answers Yes to question #2
AND
• Answers Moderate problem or Serious problem to question #3